Chen Meng one step closer to grand slam at ITTF World Championships Finals
The People's Republic of China's contingent continued their onslaught to retain the men's and women's singles titles in Durban on Thursday. Egypt's Omar Assar will carry Africa's flag in the quarterfinals.
Olympic champion Chen Meng found some resistance in her bid to claim the full collection of major global titles at the ITTF World Table Tennis Championships Finals 2023 in Durban, South Africa on Thursday (25 May).
In the men’s tournament, defending champion Fan Zhendong and world number two Wang Chuqin all coasted into the next round setting up a mouth-watering climax at the biennial showpiece.
Meng had to work hard for her fourth victory at the tournament with a 4-2 (11-8, 7-11, 11-5, 5-11, 11-7, 11-7) win over Miyuu Kihara of Japan. She won all three her previous matches in the tournament without dropping a set highlighting Miyuu’s valiant stand.
The 29-year-old ace from the People’s Republic of China already boasts a host of accolades including the Olympic and ITTF Women's World Cup titles. The world title is the only piece of silverware missing from her collection.
“I think I still had some challenges and difficulties in the first singles match today. It was only after we reached 2-2 that I managed to win the match,” Meng said.
“The opponent played more decisively than last time. I think it is good to meet some of these difficulties, which can make me more focused and prepared for the next match.”
Meng can expect a serious challenge in her bid with compatriots defending champion Wang Manyu and world number one Sun Yingsha winning their last-16 matches.
— World Table Tennis
Defending men’s singles champion Fan beat Germany’s Dang Qiu in straight sets (12-10, 11-7, 11-8, 11-5) to set up a clash with Africa’s hopeful Omar Assar.
“In the singles match, because it was the first time I played Qiu Dang, I met some difficulties in the first set,” Fan said.
“After winning the first set, I felt that I would gradually feel better and better on the court. I was satisfied with my performance today.”
Assar made history following his 4-0 victory over Tomislav Pucar of Croatia becoming only the second male African player to reach the quarterfinals of the world championships. The 31-year-old Assar follows in the footsteps of Nigeria’s Quadri Aruna, who reached this point of the competition in Houston two years ago.
Aruna was also the first African table tennis player to reach the quarterfinals at the Olympics in Rio 2016 before Assar emulated him by making it into the final eight in Tokyo 2020 (in 2021).
