Marcell Jacobs: Taking the mantle of an Olympic legend
Probably the most-asked question from athletics fans and experts heading into Tokyo 2020 was this: how do you replace a legend like Usain Bolt?

By the time those Olympics took place in 2021, the world had only known one 100m champion since Beijing 2008 (where Bolt won the first of his three Olympic 100m titles) and people were waiting with bated breath to see just who would inherit the Jamaican’s crown.

Jacobs was still a full three years away from becoming a full-time sprinter when Bolt won his last Olympic title at Rio 2016, in the same year the Italian triumphed in his national long jump championship.

It’s fair to say that no one could have predicted the impact his switch of sports would have on the world of track & field.

Fast-forward to Tokyo 2020 and even the idea of Jacobs reaching the final in Japan would have been historic as, before him, no Italian in history had made it to the gold-medal race.

But while the world was focused on more seasoned sprinters, such as the USA’s Fred Kerley - now world 100m champion, Canada’s Rio 2016 100m bronze medallist Andre De Grasse and even Africa’s fastest man Akani Simbine, Jacobs confounded expectations, crossing the line to become the new Olympic champion.

It was one of the great highlights of the Tokyo 2020 Games and also among the finest underdog performances in history. However, crowns like these can weigh heavy on the head and doubts soon began to surface in Jacobs’ mind.

“When I came home immediately after the Olympics, I asked myself, ‘What now? What do I do?’ Because my whole life in sports was focused on winning the Olympics, which is every athlete’s dream because there’s nothing greater to win.

“Everything was always about that, so there was a week when I tried to figure out my next goal. All my life I’d worked for that, but when you achieve it, what can you do?”
Marcell Jacobs: Dealing with the pressure of being Olympic champion
While Jacobs was left questioning how to move on from a goal that had been the focal point of his career as an athlete, there were other pressures mounting as people’s expectations of what he should do next weighed heavy on his mind.

But alongside sports psychologist Nicoletta Romanazzi, who he has been working with since September 2020, he has adopted methods to deal with the external demands that being an athlete in the spotlight puts on you.

“Do you know the weight a simple phrase like, ‘We’re all here for you’ puts on your shoulders? That you’re running for everyone who is there watching you?” he asked. “It weighs on you like a boulder. So you have to create a bubble in which you listen to everything but only absorb what you need…

“The thing I lacked was that I was always afraid of other people judging me, so I used to say, 'I’m going to this race but if I don’t run well what will those people write and think?'”

He came to the realisation that he could only focus on his own expectations. And the "bubble" he has created around him continues to help him grow and flourish as an athlete with “body and mind” in perfect harmony.
