No asterisk to Lionel Messi's career. His brilliant resume now includes World Cup title. | Opinion
Lionel Messi wins the only title that had eluded him and proves he's the best to ever play the game as he carries Argentina past France in thrilling World Cup final.As his teammates and the Argentina fans dissolved in tears around him, Lionel Messi beamed.
This wasn't a fairytale ending. Such things don't exist and, if they did, the World Cup final wouldn't have gone into extra time, let alone a penalty shootout, both of which made for a more precarious, and unpredictable, outcome.
But it was about as close as it comes.
In his last World Cup game, with his older two sons at an age where they can appreciate what they witnessed, Messi finally won the only title that had eluded him while providing an emphatic answer to those who'd questioned whether he is the best to ever play the game.
The trophy in his hands, shining as bright as that smile, proves it.
"He's the best in history, no doubt about it, and he showed that in the game. He's been showing it during the whole tournament," Rodrigo De Paul told Argentina TV station TyC Sports after Messi and Argentina defeated defending champion France in a penalty shootout in Sunday's World Cup final.
'Completely insane'
The final itself was epic, an instant classic that showed the beautiful game in all its thrilling and nerve-wracking glory. Or, as Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni said, "The match was completely insane." With first-half goals from Messi and Angel Di Maria, Argentina was 10 minutes from a victory over a lethargic France when Kylian Mbappe single-handedly revived the defending champions. He scored twice in 90 seconds to force extra time.Then, after Messi had knocked in a rebound goal to put Argentina back in front in the 108th, Mbappe tied it up again 10 minutes later. That would send the game to a penalty shootout, and France would miss two of its first four shots. With Messi, Paulo Dybala and Leandro Paredes all making theirs -- Messi slow-rolling his as if to give all those who've doubted his greatness a few extra seconds to absorb it -- it came to Gonzalo Montiel, whose handball in extra time had given France a last lifeline.
