China's YANG Qian became an instant global sensation when she won the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games' maiden gold medal in shooting on Saturday 24 July 2021.

The 21-year-old claimed the 10 metre air rifle Olympic title sparking a gold rush in Tokyo, setting a new Olympic record in the process.

But she wasn't finished there, topping the podium once more in the 10m air rifle mixed team competition alongside teammate YANG Haoran.

Yang Qian was the first to complete the medal ceremony protocols at Tokyo 2020, collecting her gold medal herself as athletes complied with anti-Covid measures.

So how did Yang Qian win two gold medals and where can you watch the highlights?Born in Ningbo, Zhejiang, on China's eastern coast, Yang Qian started shooting when she was ten and was quickly spotted as a gifted markswoman.

Dedicated to shooting, Yang was practising while studying at the Tsinghua University in Beijing, a third-year undergraduate studying economics and management at the time of her double Olympic triumph.

Due to the Covid-19 pandemic she was taking online classes with the university which she also represented in shooting.

An Olympic debutant, Yang showed incredible mettle in her first event with a calm and composure well beyond her years to clinch the women's 10m air rifle title.

She shot a record score of 251.8 to edge out ROC athlete Anastasiia Galashina (251.1) in a close final round, with Switzerland’s Nina Christen (230.6) claiming the bronze.

It was a battle of nerves a between Yang and Galashina and after the ROC shooter missed the centre two rings, scoring 8.9 on her final shot, the Chinese sharpshooter closed it out.

Yang scored 9.8 with her final shot to reset the Olympic record at 251.8.

"It's unbelievable that I can be here. I was really nervous," she said afterwards. "The competition was really tight, but I'm so happy that I could win."

"I'm so happy that this golden medal is a gift to my country. I'm so proud."

You might have forgiven Yang for being distracted by her sudden rise to worldwide fame, but she calmed herself once more for the mixed teams event final three days after winning individual gold.

A rare mistake in the early rounds saw Yang shoot in the sevens, but she recovered her form and put on a dazzling display next to teammate YANG Haoran.

The Chinese double act drew level on 11-11 before eventually overcoming the United States' duo of Mary Tucker and Lucas Kozeniesky by 17-13.

The U.S. pair scored no less than 9.8 throughout the competition, telling you just how good the Chinese two were as Yang Qian scored three straight 10.4s in the final three rounds to guaranteed gold.

With two gold medals and history made, YANG Qian also went viral across Chinese media with her duck and carrot hairpins, and they quickly sold out on all major e-commerce platforms all over the country.
