American Fred Kerley, the reigning world champion in the 100 meters, will face Italian Lamont Marcell Jacobs, the reigning Olympic gold medalist, in the 100 meters at a June 2 Diamond League meet in Florence, Italy.

The race will be their first meeting since Tokyo. That’s when Jacobs, in a surprise, won the gold in a personal-best 9.80 seconds, edging out Kerley to become the first Italian man to win the Olympic 100 meters. Jacobs was born to an Italian mother in El Paso, Texas, and moved to Italy as a child.

The two men have traded barbs in interviews and on social media in recent weeks. Kerley, appearing on the “Sprint Culture” video podcast weeks ago, scoffed at Jacobs’s recent runner-up performance in 6.50 seconds at the 60 meters in the European indoor championships, “Indoor is indoor,” Kerley said. “The real dogs come and play outdoor.” Asked whether Jacobs is a real dog, Kerley replied, “I don’t think so.”

Jacobs responded with recent Instagram stories captioned, “The lion doesn’t turn around when a small dog barks,” and, “Easy run today so as not to scare small dogs,” according to NBC Sports.

A later Instagram story included an image of him beating Kerley at the Olympics. The caption read: “Whenever you want and wherever you want, but remember that when it mattered more it ended like this.”

Kerley and Jacobs, both 28 years old, have raced one another only twice. Jacobscame out ahead both times. Neither won when they ran together in a pre-Olympics Diamond League race in Monaco in 2021, where Jacobs finished third and Kerley sixth. Then Jacobs came out on top in Tokyo.

Kerley has the faster personal best—a 9.76 in a preliminary heat at the 2022 world championships. He also had a strong start to this season, winning the 200 meters in the Diamond League season opener in Doha, Qatar, last weekend in 19.92 seconds.

When Kerley was asked last week in a news conference about a potential matchup with Jacobs, he said, “If it happens, I’ll be there and I’ll definitely win. I don’t know if he’ll show up.”

Last summer, Jacobs pulled out of the semifinals of the 100 meters at the world championships in Eugene, Ore., with a nagging thigh injury. Kerley went on to win the final in 9.86 seconds, leading an American sweep of the medals. Marvin Bracy-Williams was second, followed by Trayvon Bromell—who is also racing in Florence.

High-profile sprint matchups are relatively infrequent outside of world championships and Olympic Games, partly because of the risk of defeat, and partly due to a lack of appearance fees to spread among stars.
Marco Sicari, the organizer of the Diamond League meet in Florence, declined to reveal what meet organizers were paying the men to appear. But, he said, “it’s not over what we’ve usually been investing on top athletes.”

He added: “At the end, they were both happy to join us, so we are really really happy to present this very emotional matchup between two of the most interesting athletes we’ve been seeing in at least the last three years.”
Marcello Magnani, Jacobs’ agent, said the matchup is part of the athletes’ preparation for the world championships in August in Budapest, Hungary.
“Both athletes want to achieve the best shape for the world championships and, evidently, both coaches saw that path as the ideal to build up the best form towards the real great target of the season,” Magnani wrote in an email.
Kerley won last year’s 100-meter Diamond League race in Rome, in 9.92 seconds. The stadium there is under renovation, so this year’s meet is being held in Florence.
Sicari acknowledged that social media played a role in making the meeting happen. “If we were in the social-media era between Ali and Frazier, they probably would use also the social media.”
